[TABLES OF CONTENTS]
1.Basic Commands
2.Networking Commands
3.File Permissions and Ownerships
4.Package Management 
5.Terminology
 
[Basic Commands]
1.) ls:
Description: Lists contents of a directory.
Example: ls -la shows all files including hidden ones with detailed information.
 
2.) pwd:
Description: Prints the current working directory.
Example: Running pwd might return /home/user/documents.
 
3.) cd:
Description: Changes the current directory.
Example: cd /var/log navigates to the /var/log directory.
 
4.) mkdir:
Description: Creates a new directory.
Example: mkdir projects creates a directory named "projects".
 
5.) touch:
Description: Creates an empty file or updates the timestamp of an existing file.
Example: touch newfile.txt creates "newfile.txt" if it doesn’t exist.
 
6.) rm:
Description: Removes files or directories.
Example: rm -r oldfolder deletes "oldfolder" and its contents.
 
7.) cp:
Description: Copies files or directories.
Example: cp report.pdf /home/user/documents/ copies "report.pdf" to the specified directory.
 
mv:
Description: Moves or renames files or directories.
Example: mv draft.txt final_draft.txt renames "draft.txt" to "final_draft.txt".
 
8.) cat:
Description: Displays the contents of a file.
Example: cat notes.txt shows the content of "notes.txt" on the terminal.
 
[Networking Commands]
 
1.) ifconfig or ip a:
Description: Displays network interface configurations.
Example: ip a lists all network interfaces and their IP addresses.
 
2.) ping:
Description: Tests network connectivity to a host.
Example: ping example.com checks if the website "example.com" is reachable.
 
3.) traceroute:
Description: Traces the route packets take to a network destination.
Example: traceroute example.com shows the path packets take to reach "example.com".
 
4.) netstat:
Description: Displays network connections and statistics.
Example: netstat -tuln lists all open TCP and UDP ports.
 
5.) nmap:
Description: Scans networks for open ports and services.
Example: nmap 192.168.1.1 scans the specified IP address for open ports.
 
[File Permissions & Ownership]
 
1.) chmod:
Description: Changes file permissions.
Examples:
chmod 755 script.sh: Sets read/write/execute for the owner and read/execute for others.
chmod 644 document.txt: Sets read/write for the owner and read-only for others.
chmod 777 folder: Gives full permissions to everyone.
 
2.) chown:
Description: Changes file ownership.
Example: sudo chown user:group file.txt changes the owner of "file.txt" to "user" and the group to "group".
 
3.) ls -l:
Description: Lists files with detailed information including permissions.
Example: ls -l shows permissions, ownership, and file details.
Process Management
 
4.) top:
Description: Displays real-time system processes and resource usage.
Example: top shows a dynamic view of active processes.
 
5.) ps:
Description: Shows a snapshot of currently running processes.
Example: ps aux lists all processes with detailed information.
 
6.) kill:
Description: Terminates processes by ID.
Example: kill 1234 stops the process with ID 1234.
 
7.) df:
Description: Shows disk space usage.
Example: df -h displays disk space in a human-readable format.
 
8.) du:
Description: Shows disk usage of files and directories.
Example: du -h /var shows sizes of files and directories under /var.
 
9.) free:
Description: Displays memory usage (RAM and swap).
Example: free -m shows memory usage in megabytes.
 
[Package Management]
 
1.) sudo apt-get update:
Description: Updates the list of available packages.
Example: sudo apt-get update fetches the latest package information.
 
2.) sudo apt-get upgrade:
Description: Upgrades all installed packages to the latest versions.
Example: sudo apt-get upgrade applies available updates to installed packages.
 
3.) sudo apt-get install:
Description: Installs new software packages.
Example: sudo apt-get install nmap installs the "nmap" package.
 
4.) sudo apt-get remove:
Description: Removes installed software packages.
Example: sudo apt-get remove nmap uninstalls the "nmap" package.
 
[Terminology]
 
1.) Ethical Hacking:
Description: Legally breaking into systems to find and fix vulnerabilities before malicious hackers can exploit them.
 
2.) Penetration Testing:
Description: Simulating attacks to assess the security of a system.
 
3.) Firewall:
Description: A network security system that monitors and controls incoming and outgoing network traffic based on security rules.
 
4.) Vulnerability:
Description: A weakness in a system that can be exploited by attackers.
 
5.) Exploit:
Description: A method or piece of software that takes advantage of a vulnerability.
 
6.) Patch:
Description: An update or fix for software that addresses security issues or bugs.
 
7.) Malware:
Description: Malicious software designed to disrupt or damage systems, including viruses, worms, and ransomware.
 
8.) Zero-Day:
Description: A vulnerability that is exploited before the software vendor has issued a fix.
 
9.) Encryption:
Description: The process of converting data into a secure format to prevent unauthorized access.
 
10.) IP Address:
Description: A unique identifier assigned to a device on a network.
 
11.) Port Scanning:
Description: Probing a system's ports to find open ones that might be vulnerable.

12.) Repository:
Description: A directory where Git tracks changes to your files.

13.) Commit:
Description: A saved state of your project. You commit changes to record them in Git.

14.) Staging Area:
Description: Where you place files you want to commit.

15.) Branch:
Description: A separate line of development within your project. For example, you can work on a feature branch without affecting the main branch.

16.) Merge:
Description: Combing changes from one branch into another.


17.)  Conflict
Description: Occurs when Git detects changes in the same file from different branches that it cant automatically resolve.

[Git]
1.) git –version:
Description: Checks the version of your git.

2.) git checkout branch-name
Description: Switches to a different branch.

3.) git checkout -b branch-name
Description: Creates a new branch and switches to it.

4.) git merge branch-name
Description: Combines changes from one branch to another

5.) got config –global alias.st status
Description: Creates Aliases\Shortcuts to make shorter commands
{Examples: 
Git config --global alias.ci commit #for git commit
Git config  --global alias.co checkout #for checkout
Git config –global alias.br branch for branch

6.) git add filename AND git commit -m resolve merge conflict
Description: Finalizes the resolution


 


